## Conclusion

Let's revisit the questions outlined on our "Project Overview" page.

**_Historically, are World Series champions (and other successful playoff teams) more likely to have exceptional hitting or pitching?_**
> By a slim margin, the answer to this question is pitching.  We can get an idea for a team’s hitting and pitching strength simply by comparing their number of runs scored against their runs allowed.  When one plots these two variables on our scatter plot, the general trend is upward-sloping.  Out of the 19 total teams, 11 scored fewer than 850 runs (no more than 5.247 runs per game) over the course of their season, illustrating that a majority of recent champions have exhibited impressive ability to hold opponents below that threshold.  Especially noteworthy are teams like the 2016 Chicago Cubs, who hovered near the median value for runs scored but surrendered the fewest opponent runs of any team in the sample.  Most squads are not so dominant, however,  and run a tradeoff between offensive production and pitching prowess.  After examining precedence—and operating under the assumption that teams like the 2016 Cubs are idealistic—we’ve determined that the age-old mantra rings true: “pitching wins championships.”

**_What regions of the country are most rich in talent, and which colleges are expected to churn out future major league all-stars?_**
> From the talent scouting analysis, _California (CA)_ seems to be the state that produces the largest number of talents in any position. _Florida (FL)_ is almost always in the top three, while _Texas (TX)_ appears frequently as well. 
>In terms of cities, _Los Angeles_, unsurprisingly, seems to always lead the chart. A few Texan cities, such as Houston and Austin, along with cities in Florida such as Miami, Coral Gables, appear often. 
> The underlying reasons for why these are top cities/states seem to be **unclear** at this point. The fact that CA, TX, and FL are the top three states may simply be due to the fact that they are the top three _most populated_ states in the United States.
Or, it could be that since baseball is a "sunny" sport, the amount of sunshine a state gets may impact the number of talents it produces. A more detailed analysis is needed to determine the actual factor.
> Regardless of the reason, this experiment proves that there are cities/states that have been consistently producing talents (for particular positions) and scouting agents should spend more time/budget in those regions. 
Note: These observations are made by monitoring the rendered tables and analyzing the heat map. For further analysis, every combination (position and year) can be examined and their results are recorded to enable a more thorough experiment.

**_How is a baseball player valued by team executives?_**
> The difference between baseball player salaries, in general, has increased tremendously over time. In 1985, salaries ranged from $60,000 to $2.1M and grew to a range of $500,000 to $33M in 2016. In 1995, the mean salary ($954,000) for all players was greater than the 3rd quartile ($900,000), indicating relatively high-earners. Positions such as pitchers and shortstops have more high-earners than first basemen or outfielders with the mean often closer to if not above the 3rd quartile. Visually, the violin plot  for pitchers and shortstops had a long string of high earners, and then a flat wide pool of average-earning players. On the other end,  the violin plot first basemen and outfielders had a shorter string of high-earners and a less dense bubble of salaries at the bottom. These categories with more high-earners may reflect on the value that a “star” player in the position might bring, as deemed by a front office.
<br/><br/>
> Based solely on the "Player Statistics vs. Salaries" plot, it is reasonable to assume that there is no distinct(or weak) linear correlation between salary and the statistics that are provided in the plot. One possible reason for this is because each statistic has the flaws that make it difficult to identify a linear relation. For example, a double in slugging percentage(SLG) is not worth exactly twice as much as a single. For batting average(BA), sometimes it can mislead a data viewer since it ignores a segment of offensive actions because they don't count as hits. To be more specific, batting average leaves out walks, which is another major factor in run scoring. One other major justification is that even though the BA, SLG, and OBP are good evaluative tools to assess a player, it is hard to predict a player's salary based on just a few variables since there are many other internal and external factors that can affect a player's performance. 


### Final Thoughts
Each facet of our report represents an organizational domain that must be managed effectively in order to generate success on the field.  Budgeting aptitude, scouting, and player development, and roster building are all components that work in concert to promote a championship culture.  The Seattle Mariners do each of these things poorly.
